



Explore search strategies. Identify as many keywords as you can related to your topic. Think of synonyms as well as broader and narrower terms. 
When you conduct a search, it's good to start with a keyword search. 


Identify relevant sources. When you find relevant items, look at the subject terms applied to those items and try searching with those. Subject searching is a 
more powerful and precise way to search.




•
Many databases have a help file to help you with truncation, limiters, and other advanced searching features. This link is on the top right for the two LIS databases, and this
four minute video tutorial(opens in a new tab) provides a detailed explanation of the EBSCOhost search interface.

•
You can search several databases at once on the same platform, though you may lose some advanced searching features. For example, you can search both LIS databases simultaneously
by clicking on Choose Databases in the top middle of the EBSCOhost search interface.

•
When you find a highly relevant source, it's a good idea to note the subject terms assigned to the item. It's also helpful to check the references for other potential sources. 
The next section will explain how to find one of these specific sources.

It can be frustrating to not find anything when you are searching, but sometimes all it takes to improve your search results is a small tweak to your search.

General tips that work in almost any search box:

Quotation marks search for an exact phrase. For example, [ medical error ] finds results with those two words anywhere in the document, together or separately,
whereas [ "medical error" ] finds results with that exact phrase.
An asterisk saves typing by searching for all endings to a word at the same time. For example, [ mexic* ] searches for Mexico, Mexican, and Mexicans. Be careful not to
shorten your word too much, because this can bring back results that are not relevant. For example, [ me* ] searches for Mexico, Mexican, Mexicans, meningitis, memes, Medici, 
and so on.
-
Citation pearl begins with a known item. 
When you look up the item you use the 
index or search terms from it to search
and locate more items like the one that 
you have. I began with a journal article 
that I had found during a previous search.

Specific facet first strategy uses the most
specific facet to do your search. If you 
don't know which is your most specific facet,
you can search your facets individually to get it.

This is a Successive Fractions search 
strategy. This strategy is used when 
searching broad concepts with a large number
of hits. It narrows the search by applying
limiting techniques like Boolean operators. This is done step-by-step until the search is reduced to a manageable number of hits.


High degree of relevancy
High precision, fewer results
Requires knowing, finding subject headings






